## what is oop
- Object Oriented Programming is a paradigm that provides many concepts such as inheritance, data binding, polymorphism etc.
- Object means a real word entity such as pen, chair, table etc. 
- Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology or paradigm to design a program using classes and objects.

## Object
- Any entity that has state and behavior is known as an object. For example: chair, pen, table, keyboard, bike etc. It can be physical and logical.

## Class
- Collection of objects is called class. It is a logical entity.
- A Class in C++ is the foundational element that leads to Object-Oriented programming. 
- A class instance must be created in order to access and use the user-defined data type's data members and member functions.
- An object's class acts as its blueprint.Take the class of cars as an example. Even if different names and brands may be used for different cars, all of them will have some characteristics in common, such as four wheels, a speed limit, a range of miles, etc. In this case, the class of car is represented by the wheels, the speed limitations, and the mileage.

## Inheritance
- When one object acquires all the properties and behaviours of parent object i.e. known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism.

- Sub class - Subclass or Derived Class refers to a class that receives properties from another class.
Super class - The term "Base Class" or "Super Class" refers to the class from which a subclass inherits its properties.
- Reusability - As a result, when we wish to create a new class, but an existing class already contains some of the code we need, we can generate our new class from the old class thanks to inheritance. This allows us to utilize the fields and methods of the pre-existing class.

## Polymorphism
- When one task is performed by different ways i.e. known as polymorphism.
- Different situations may cause an operation to behave differently. The type of data utilized in the operation determines the behavior.
- It has function and operator overloading

## Abstraction
- Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction. Data abstraction is the process of exposing to the outside world only the information that is absolutely necessary while concealing implementation or background information.For example: phone call, we don't know the internal processing.
- In C++, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.

## Encapsulation
- Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit is known as encapsulation.
- It refers to the bundling of data (attributes) and methods (functions) that operate on the data into a single unit or class.

## Dynamic Binding
- In dynamic binding, a decision is made at runtime regarding the code that will be run in response to a function call. For this, C++ supports virtual functions.

## Advantage of OOPs over Procedure-oriented programming language
- OOPs makes development and maintenance easier where as in Procedure-oriented programming language it is not easy to manage if code grows as project size grows.
- OOPs provide data hiding whereas in Procedure-oriented programming language a global data can be accessed from anywhere.
- OOPs provide ability to simulate real-world event much more effectively. We can provide the solution of real word problem if we are using the Object-Oriented Programming language.

## Why do we need oops in C++?
1) The main function must always be outside the class in C++ and is required. This means that we may do without classes and objects and have a single main function in the application. It is expressed as an object in this case, which is the first time Pure OOP has been violated.
2) Global variables are a feature of the C++ programming language that can be accessed by any other object within the program and are defined outside of it. Encapsulation is broken here. Even though C++ encourages encapsulation for classes and objects, it ignores it for global variables.

