## C++ Operators Overloading
- Operator overloading is a compile-time polymorphism in which the operator is overloaded to provide the special meaning to the user-defined data type. Operator overloading is used to overload or redefines most of the operators available in C++. It is used to perform the operation on the user-defined data type. For example, C++ provides the ability to add the variables of the user-defined data type that is applied to the built-in data types.

- The advantage of Operators overloading is to perform different operations on the same operand.

#### Operator that cannot be overloaded are as follows:

1. Scope operator (::)
2. Sizeof
3. member selector(.)
4. member pointer selector(*)
5. ternary operator(?:)
6. Syntax of Operator Overloading

```cpp
return_type class_name  : : operator op(argument_list)  
{  
     // body of the function.  
}  
```
Where the return type is the type of value returned by the function.

class_name is the name of the class.

operator op is an operator function where op is the operator being overloaded, and the operator is the keyword.

#### Rules for Operator Overloading
- Existing operators can only be overloaded, but the new operators cannot be overloaded.
- The overloaded operator contains atleast one operand of the user-defined data type.
- We cannot use friend function to overload certain operators. However, the member function can be used to overload those operators.
- When unary operators are overloaded through a member function take no explicit arguments, but, if they are overloaded by a friend function, takes one argument.
- When binary operators are overloaded through a member function takes one explicit argument, and if they are overloaded through a friend function takes two explicit arguments.

#### C++ Operators Overloading Example
Let's see the simple example of operator overloading in C++. In this example, void operator ++ () operator function is defined (inside Test class).

// program to overload the unary operator ++.
```cpp
#include <iostream>    
using namespace std;    
class Test    
{    
   private:    
      int num;    
   public:    
       Test(): num(8){}    
       void operator ++()         {     
          num = num+2;     
       }    
       void Print() {     
           cout<<"The Count is: "<<num;     
       }    
};    
int main()    
{    
    Test tt;    
    ++tt;  // calling of a function "void operator ++()"    
    tt.Print();    
    return 0;    
}    
```
Output:

The Count is: 10

#### Let's see a simple example of overloading the binary operators.
```cpp
// program to overload the binary operators.

#include <iostream>  
using namespace std;  
class A  
{  
    
    int x;  
      public:  
      A(){}  
    A(int i)  
    {  
       x=i;  
    }  
    void operator+(A);  
    void display();  
};  
  
void A :: operator+(A a)  
{  
     
    int m = x+a.x;  
    cout<<"The result of the addition of two objects is : "<<m;  
  
}  
int main()  
{  
    A a1(5);  
    A a2(4);  
    a1+a2;  
    return 0;  
}  
```
Output:

The result of the addition of two objects is : 9 