### Virtual Functions
- consider a case where we have same named function in base and derived class
- We create an instance of derived class and try to call that function
- There is an ambiguity that which function would be called
- Always the function in base class is executed

###### But what if we want the derived class function to execute
- We can use virtual functions
- We make the function in base class as virtual using virtual keyword
- We create a pointer to base class
- We create an instance of derived class
- We assign the address of the derived class to the pointer of the base class
- We can then easily override the base class function call using virtual function

### Rules of Virtual Functions

1. Virtual functions must be members of some class.
2. Virtual functions cannot be static members.
3. They are accessed through object pointers.
4. They can be a friend of another class.
5. A virtual function must be defined in the base class, even though it is not used.
6. The prototypes of a virtual function of the base class and all the derived classes must be identical. If the two functions with the same name but different prototypes, C++ will consider them as the overloaded functions.
7. We cannot have a virtual constructor, but we can have a virtual destructor

### Consider the situation when we don't use the virtual keyword.

```cpp
#include <iostream>  
using namespace std;  
class A  
{  
   int x=5;  
    public:  
    void display()  
    {  
        std::cout << "Value of x is : " << x<<std::endl;  
    }  
};  
class B: public A  
{  
    int y = 10;  
    public:  
    void display()  
    {  
        std::cout << "Value of y is : " <<y<< std::endl;  
    }  
};  
int main()  
{  
    A *a;  
    B b;  
    a = &b;  
   a->display();  
    return 0;  
}  

//output
//Value of x is : 5
```
In the above example, * a is the base class pointer. The pointer can only access the base class members but not the members of the derived class. Although C++ permits the base pointer to point to any object derived from the base class, it cannot directly access the members of the derived class. Therefore, there is a need for virtual function which allows the base pointer to access the members of the derived class.


### C++ virtual function Example
Let's see the simple example of C++ virtual function used to invoked the derived class in a program.
```cpp
#include <iostream>    
{    
 public:    
 virtual void display()    
 {    
  cout << "Base class is invoked"<<endl;    
 }    
};    
class B:public A    
{    
 public:    
 void display()    
 {    
  cout << "Derived Class is invoked"<<endl;    
 }    
};    
int main()    
{    
 A* a;    //pointer of base class    
 B b;     //object of derived class    
 a = &b;    
 a->display();   //Late Binding occurs    
}    
/*
Output:
Derived Class is invoked  */
```
